The penthouse
The TriBeCa Penthouse
A sanctuary high above the corner of Greenwich Street and North Moore Street.

Overview
The TriBeCa Penthouse was created by Belgian designer Axel Vervoordt and Japanese architect Tatsuro Miki, in close collaboration with the hotel’s partners Ira Drukier and Robert De Niro. The 6,800 sq ft suite was inspired by the TriBeCa neighborhood’s industrial past fused with the ancient Japanese aesthetic of Wabi.

TriBeCa
The industrial treatment of the top is in perfect harmony with the building below. It is a logical expression how it could have been. From the street one should think it was first an old workshop later an artist’s atelier. The third evolution of this atelier is a living space to contemplate New York as it is today. - Axel Vervoordt

Design
The Penthouse design incorporates the philosophical beliefs of Wabi: beauty found in imperfection and authenticity; Artempo – where time becomes art; and poor materials that are rich in spirit.

Wabi
With minimal design, reclaimed materials from the surrounding area, and antique furnishings from Asia and Europe, the ancient Japanese aesthetic of Wabi is found throughout the 6,800 sq ft pied-a-terre.

Reuse and Repurpose
Sustainable design is echoed throughout the interior and exterior space. Materials like stone, steel and reclaimed wood were carefully selected and thoughtfully utilized in every area of the penthouse.

Materials
"The 20th Century was a period of making, using, and throwing away and making again. This has been very important for the growing economy but today there is no room anymore to throw away and there are not enough forests to destroy for new wood." Axel Vervoordt

The details
Explore more of the Penthouse using the boxes above or the arrows below.
- 1
The Drawing Room includes a comfortable seating area and features glass doors leading out to the lower terrace gardens.
- 2
Original ceramics and vases designed by Japanese artisan, Shiro Tsujimura.
Opposite wall in the Drawing Room features a natural stone slab fireplace and passage to exterior terraces.
- 3
The Living Room has a custom stone fireplace and seating area with oversized sliding doors leading out to the lower terrace gardens and a staircase to the upper terrace gardens.
- 4
Artwork in the Living Room is an original piece created specifically for the space by Axel Vervoordt and Tatsuro Miki. 
- 5
The iron fire grate has been made from joist hangers utilized in the original structure of the Louvre Museum.
- 6
The large Master Suite features a king-sized bed, walk-in closet, fireplace and glass door leading out to the lower terrace gardens.
A 19th century walnut tabletop was repurposed for the Master Bedroom headboard.
- 7
The en suite Master Bathroom features intricate stone floors, a custom bathtub and separate shower.
The framework for the soaking tub and the double basin sink was crafted from a 17th Century stone water trough weathered and smoothed by time.
- 8
The Second Bedroom, with a king-sized bed, shares access with the third bedroom to a large bathroom featuring a steam room with rain shower and Japanese soaking tub.
Each bronze door handle has been shaped from a clay mold of Axel Vervoordt’s hand in different positions.
- 9
Bedroom Three, with custom twin day beds, has glass doors leading out to the lower terrace gardens.
The ceiling is lined with wood planks salvaged from the nearby Union Square Farmers Market.
- 10
The 4,000 sq ft private multi-leveled terrace includes lush gardens with wisteria-wrapped pergolas, multiple seating and dining areas, a spa pool, a large gas grill, and an outdoor wood-burning fireplace.
- 11
The copper gourd hanging lanterns were crafted from the original roofing of the building.

Floorplans
The Penthouse offers a large open floorplan with multi-purpose living spaces, including a separate living room and drawing room, a full sized chef’s kitchen, three fireplaces, two and half bathrooms and three bedrooms. The private outdoor gardens on two levels span over 4,000 sq ft and feature a spa pool and dining for 18 guests.
- 1
Penthouse and surrounding Gardens
- 2
 Outdoor upper level Terrace

Craftsmanship
The original copper roof of the building has been repurposed by an upstate New York artisan who handcrafted gourd-shaped light fixtures from this metal.

Gourds
"The 21st century is a period of recuperation. We have to reuse what is already used or thrown away." Axel Vervoordt

The Conclusion
We want to express a TriBeCa character in the most humble way. Because the architecture is so simple, it belongs as much to the past as to the future.
Axel Vervoordt 